It is never easy to fix upon one cause as the origin of a great war, and
the war of 1914 was the outcome of several causes combined.  For twenty
years there had been growing up in Europe a sense of insecurity; the
great Powers had become restless and suspicious of one another, and one
Power, Germany, was seriously considering the possibility of some bold
stroke which would put her beyond the reach of rivalry. Germany, since
her victory over France in 1870, had become a very great and rich
nation; she had spread her commerce over the world; and she was anxious
to create an empire akin to those of Britain and France.  But she began
the task too late in the day; she could succeed only at the expense of
her neighbours.  The ambition of Germany was, therefore, one perpetual
source of danger.

Another danger was her nervousness, which frequently accompanies
ambition.  There was an alliance between France and Russia, and a
growing friendliness between Britain and France, and Germany feared that
her rivals were combining to hem her in and put a stop to what she
considered her natural development.  Russia had fallen very low after
the war with Japan, but was rapidly recovering both in wealth and armed
strength.  France was making strenuous efforts to increase her army, so
that she should not be at a disadvantage as compared with the far
greater population of Germany.  Britain had no ambitions of conquest;
her aim was the peaceful development of her Empire. But that was an
oversea Empire, and she required a large navy; and the size of this navy
seemed to Germany to be a menace to her future.

The result was that in the summer of 1914 the rulers of Germany had
decided that some great effort must soon be made; they must put their
land in such a position that for the future it would have no cause to
dread the aggression, or even the rivalry, of other Powers.  If they
delayed too long they feared that the growing wealth of Russia and the
increased military strength of France would make such an effort for ever
impossible.

On June 28, 1914, the Archduke Francis Ferdinand, the heir to the
Austrian throne, was murdered, along with his wife, in the little
Bosnian town of Serajevo.  Austria had long been jealous of the movement
towards unity among the Slav peoples in the Balkans, with Serbia at
their head, and she believed, or pretended to believe, that the murder
had been connived at by the Serbian Government.  Germany, for reasons of
her own, was equally desirous to see the power of the Balkan states
diminished.  She had a grandiose design of extending her influence
eastward through Constantinople to the Persian Gulf, with Turkey as her
ally or her tool, and planting a German outpost on the flank of our
Indian Empire; and a strong Serbian kingdom, or a union of Slav peoples,
would effectually bar the way.  With the approval of Germany, therefore,
Austria sent an ultimatum to Serbia, demanding certain concessions which
would have made Serbia no longer a sovereign state.  Serbia, while
willing to grant most of the demands, was compelled to refuse others,
and Austria promptly declared war.

Russia now interfered in support of Serbia, and mobilized her armies on
her southern frontiers.  Every attempt was made by the statesmen of
Western Europe, and notably by the British Foreign Secretary, Sir Edward
Grey, to limit the quarrel and to persuade Austria to listen to reason.
Germany, however, had no desire for a peaceful settlement. She induced
Austria to refuse all mediation, and presently, after a peremptory
request to the Tsar to demobilize, she declared war upon Russia.  Russia
and France were allies, and war with France followed naturally within
twenty-four hours.

The position of Britain had become extremely difficult She had no formal
alliance with France, but in her own interests she could not allow her
nearest neighbour to be crushed, and the balance of power in Europe to
be entirely changed.  Britain had never seriously considered the
possibility of a European war, and was extremely averse from interfering
in a quarrel in which she had no direct concern. She might well have
hesitated till it was too late to act with effect, or have blundered
into some foolish compromise with Germany.

The situation was saved by Belgium.  The German scheme of attack on
France was based upon a sudden invasion from the north, and for this a
march through Belgium was essential.  The neutrality of Belgium had long
before been guaranteed by all the great Powers, but Germany argued that
her necessity must override the law of nations, and demanded a passage
through Belgium.  This was refused. The invasion of Belgium accordingly
began on Sunday, the 2nd August, and this outrage determined the policy
of the British Government and the British people.

On Monday, the 3rd August, Sir Edward Grey announced that the fleet and
the army had been mobilized, and that Britain proposed to defend with
the sword her treaty obligations to Belgium.  That evening an ultimatum
was sent to Germany demanding her immediate withdrawal from Belgium;
next day we were at war with Germany.  On the same afternoon the German
Imperial Chancellor made a speech defending his violation of Belgian
neutrality.  "He who is threatened, as we are threatened, can have but
the one thought—how he is to hack his way through."  The German
Government had believed to the last that Britain would remain neutral,
and her entry into the conflict for a moment dashed their zeal for war.
"The British change the whole situation," the Emperor told the United
States Ambassador.  "An obstinate nation!  They will keep up the war.
It cannot end soon."

Britain had no great military force to throw into the balance, such as
the armies of France and Russia.  Her small regular army was little more
than a garrison for her Oversea Dominions, and her Territorial Force was
intended for home defence.  But Lord Haldane, when Secretary for War,
had foreseen the possibility of a Continental struggle, and had prepared
plans by which an Expeditionary Force of about 100,000 men could be
placed on the Continent of Europe in a very short time.  This force was,
for its size, probably the most expert army in the world. It took its
place on the left of the French line, and, though small in comparison
with the mighty levy of France, it was fated to play a leading part in
the first decisive battles.

Behind the regular army was our second line of defence, the
Territorials, nominally 300,000 strong.  But it was very certain that as
soon as war was declared the whole manhood of Britain would be called
upon, and that many hundreds of thousands of young men would be eager to
serve.  Lord Kitchener was appointed Secretary for War, and under his
direction recruiting began.  Before Christmas nearly two millions of our
men were under arms.

But Britain’s main weapon was her navy, which was by far the strongest
in the world.  After that came her wealth and her great manufacturing
capacity, by which she could supply the munitions of war required both
for her own forces and for those of her allies.  If her navy could
dominate the seas, then her commerce would go on as before, while that
of Germany would cease, and her troops and those of her allies could be
moved about the world at her pleasure. "He who commands the sea," as
Francis Bacon said long ago, "hath great freedom."

Germany was prepared for a war which she had always foreseen, and had
the greater strength; but if the Allies did not suffer an early defeat,
their strength was certain to grow with every month, while that of
Germany must decline. But if the Allies were thus to grow in power they
must be able to maintain free communications with the outer world and
with one another, and for this they must rely on the supremacy of the
British fleet.
